In the book
Insight on the Scriptures,
under the heading “Christian,”
it makes clear that claiming to be Christian
requires more than simply
a mere confession of faith.
It is more than
being a nominal Christian
—a Christian in name only.
For example,
according to the Bible,
it is necessary that belief
be demonstrated by works,
not just words.
And since we were born
as sinners,
those who become Christians
need to repent,
to turn around,
to dedicate their lives to Jehovah,
to worship and serve him,
and then to submit
to water baptism.
They must keep themselves
clean from fornication,
from idolatry,
and from consuming blood.
They are to strip off
the old personality,
including such things
as fits of anger, obscene talk,
lying, stealing, drunkenness,
and as Galatians chapter 5 says:
“things like these.”
Yes, they are to bring their lives
into accord with Bible principles.
Christians are to be
kind and considerate,
mild-tempered and patient,
and are to exercise self-control.
They provide
and care for their own
and love
their neighbor as themselves.
That’s a lot, isn’t it?
It’s not a matter
of just glibly saying,
“I am a Christian.”
But despite all of those
impressive characteristics
that we just enumerated,
what did Jesus say
the main identifying quality
of a true Christian would be?
Most of you know the answer to that,
but let’s read it again
from John 13:34, 35.
It says: “I am giving you
a new commandment,
“that you love one another;
just as I have loved you,
“you also love one another.
“By this all will know
that you are my disciples
—if you have love among yourselves.”
Those are the theme verses
for my discussion
with you this month.
The topic is:
“Love—The Identifying Mark
of a Disciple of Jesus.”
Did you notice
in verse 34 that Jesus said
that he was giving them
at that time a “new commandment”?
But it sounds like
a very old commandment, doesn’t it?
Why, over 1,500 years
before Jesus said
the words we just read,
the Law given to Moses said:
“You must love
your fellow man as yourself.”
—Leviticus 19:18.
So, what was “new”
about Jesus’ command
in John chapter 13?
He said that true Christians
were to love each other
“just as I have loved you.”
That is what was different.
That was new,
not just love the other person
as you love yourself,
but love him just like
Jesus loved His followers.
Well, what kind of love
would that be?
Self-sacrificing love
—and usually we think
of Jesus’ ultimate sacrifice,
his willingly giving his life
so that we might have the hope
of everlasting life.
But when you think about it,
that aspect of Jesus’ love
was exemplified
in a self-sacrificing death!
Now, it is true,
that as a Christian,
we might at some time have to give
our life for a fellow Christian.
But we hope
it doesn’t come to that.
So instead of talking
about a self-sacrificing death,
we want to discuss
showing this new kind of love
as evidenced
in a self-sacrificing life,
not necessarily our death.
You see, Jesus’ life
—his three-and-a-half-year ministry—
was a self-sacrificing life
of loving others.
In addition to doing good
when something requires it,
a true follower of Jesus
is to take
the initiative to help others
spiritually and otherwise.
He is to work actively
for their good.
The preaching and teaching
of the good news to others
—some of whom may even be hostile—
is one of the greatest expressions
of love, for it can result
in everlasting life
to the recipients.
However,
according to Paul’s words
at 1 Thessalonians 2:8,
a true Christian must
‘impart not only the good news of God
but also his very self’
in helping those who
accept the good news.
It’s that kind of love
that Jesus said would be
an identifying mark of his disciples,
not specifically that his followers
would all be dying for each other,
but more so that they
would all be living for each other.
Yes, displaying self-sacrificing love
for one another
every day of their lives.
The four Gospels
are a treasure trove
of Jesus’ self-sacrificing love.
And yet,
they do not cover his actions
every day of his life
as the Christ.
His three-and-a-half-year ministry
amounts to nearly
1,300 days of life and love.
The written record
of Jesus’ life is admittedly brief,
but it is grand indeed!
However, the reality
of observing Jesus every day
must have been far grander
than what we have in print.
What we have in print
might be likened
to a photo album of Jesus’ life,
some snapshots.
By comparison,
what his apostles experienced
with Jesus day after day
was like a continuous video
of his example of love.
No wonder that,
at John 21:25,
the apostle said:
“There are also . . .
“many other things that Jesus did,
“which if ever they were written
in full detail,
“I suppose the world itself
could not contain the scrolls written.”
It said there were
‘many other things Jesus did,’
not many other things
that he said,
but that he did,
yes, deeds or acts
demonstrating
his self-sacrificing life of love!
We already mentioned
the all-important preaching work
as being an act
of love on our part.
But how else
do we manifest
the most obvious trait
of a genuine Christian
—love like Jesus had?
Let’s start by thinking
of the elders in the congregation.
At Philippians 2:17,
Paul said that he
had ‘poured himself out
to the congregation
like a drink offering.’
What did that mean?
It meant that he
drained himself out,
both physically and emotionally,
to support the Philippians.
Many of the elders
in our congregations
have the same self-sacrificing love
for those under their care.
They give of their time
to shepherd
and readjust those in need.
They take the lead
in the ministry.
They respond when there is
a serious health issue or tragedy.
They pour themselves out for the friends,
thus identifying themselves
as disciples of Christ.
But we do not have
to be an elder
to provide a word
of encouragement, do we?
If we all keep focused
on others in the congregation,
not just ourselves,
we will know
who needs to be bolstered
because of trials
or circumstances that they face.
Giving in this way
is evidence of Christlike love.
You may be thinking,
‘But I’m just a little old sister
‘who finds it hard to squeeze out
a word of encouragement to others.’
Perhaps you don’t have
to say anything,
just be there
at the meetings
or in the service.
When others see your face,
they are encouraged.
Follow along
as I read Acts 28:15.
It reads:
“From there the brothers,
“when they heard the news about us,
“came as far
as the Marketplace of Appius
“and Three Taverns to meet us.
“On catching sight of them,
“Paul thanked God
and took courage.”
Paul “took courage”
just by seeing the brothers
who came out to meet him.
You encourage your brothers
and sisters by your presence.
Please follow along as I read
Philippians 2:1-4.
Paul here describes it
as “encouragement in Christ.”
He says:
“If, then, there is
any encouragement in Christ,
“if any consolation of love,
“if any spiritual fellowship,
“if any tender affection
and compassion,
“make my joy full by being
“of the same mind
and having the same love,
“being completely united,
having the one thought in mind.
“Do nothing out of contentiousness
or out of egotism,
“but with humility
“consider others superior to you,
“as you look out not only
for your own interests,
but also for the interests of others.”
Did you notice
the self-sacrificing aspect
of this love and encouragement?
Yes, he talked about having love,
but then he said,
“not . . . for your own interests,
but . . . for the interests of others.”
That type of love
—in the interests of others—
is the identifying mark
of true Christians.
What about visiting
the sick in your congregation
or those who are housebound?
Sometimes these dear ones are
“out of sight, out of mind.”
We visit with those we see
when at the Kingdom Hall,
but do we think about those
who are shut-ins?
What was a major part
of Jesus’ loving acts when on earth?
There are numerous accounts
of Jesus and his apostles
healing the sick.
It’s true that we
cannot heal the sick,
but it is in our power
to visit the sick.
And what a healing
that is to their spirit!
It means so much when
they are not just prayed for
at a meeting,
but when those words of prayer
are backed up
with an act of love
—a visit to them in person.
That is Christlike love in action.
Why not scroll down the list
of those in your service group
with the thought in mind
of checking on those
who have been missing
from the meetings?
Do they need a meal?
Do they need some help
perhaps around the house?
Do they need transportation
to the doctor?
Can we allow our love
to expand to fill their needs?
Contributing to the worldwide work,
which cares for the needs
of our brothers around the world,
is another act of love.
It demonstrates that we are
a true disciple of Christ.
Related to that, many of you have,
at your own expense,
traveled to far-flung places
to help rebuild
after a natural disaster has struck.
The overwhelming response
from the victims is evidence
of your self-sacrificing life
and love for your brothers.
It is hoped
that the reminder of Jesus
at John 13:34, 35
will be good for all of us,
not just for this month,
but for our whole course of life.
You know, about one third
of the world’s population
claims to be Christian.
But how many of them
show self-sacrificing love
outside of their immediate family?
Most are like a baseball team
in a uniform.
They think having the word “Christian”
emblazoned across the front
of their uniform
is all that is required.
However, most of them
simply “sit on the bench,”
or on a pew in church,
and many do not even attend
“the game.”
They do not live
the life of a Christian.
Jesus made clear
that being a true disciple of his
is not merely
“wearing a uniform,”
simply claiming to be
his follower.
No, it involves
actively demonstrating
works of love,
“swinging hard for the team,”
imitating the all-time greatest examples
of love,
Jehovah God and his Son,
Jesus Christ.
As Paul said
at 2 Corinthians 8:8,
we need “to test
the genuineness of [our] love.”
Yes, we need to daily prove
that we are
a genuine disciple of Jesus.